rdprofileurl: https://rd.microsoft.com/en-us/alex-mang
title: Vegetable spread
category: appetizer
shortdescription: The main ingredients are roasted eggplant, sauteed onions, tomato paste, and roasted "Round of Hungary" or "Paprika Pepper" pepper (Romanian pepper called gogoșari). Some add mushrooms, carrots, or celery. Bay leaves are added as spice, as well as other ingredients (oil, salt, and pepper). Traditionally, a family will cook a large quantity of it after the fall harvest and preserve it through canning.
ingredients: 
  4 medium aubergines
  6 large red bell peppers
  2 large onions
  500 g/ 1.1 lbs/ 2 ¼ cups pureed tomatoes (See note 1)
  120 ml/ 4 oz/ ½ cup vegetable oil (See note 2)
  about 20 black peppercorns
  4 bay leaves
  2 teaspoons honey, more to taste
  2 scant tablespoons fine sea salt, more or less to taste
directions:
  Grill the eggplants on a hot grill until the skin blackens all over and the eggplants are very soft
  Grill the bell peppers until the skin blisters and blackens
  Alternatively you can place the vegetables on baking trays lined with parchment paper and place them in the hot oven at 200 degrees Celsius/400 degrees Fahrenheit for about 20-30 minutes for the bell peppers and about 40 minutes for the eggplants, turning the veggies about 3 times in the meantime. Make sure that the vegetables are really soft (especially the eggplants) before removing them from the oven
  Cover them with plastic wrap. This procedure makes the peeling afterward easier.
  Let the vegetables cool separately. Discard the juices released by the eggplants, but keep the juices released by the pepper.
  Peel carefully, chop very roughly.
  Place the eggplants in a large sieve and let drain well for about 1 hour.
  Place the peppers in another container to cool, but reserve the juices they release during this time
  ## How do I cook zacusca?
  Chop the onions. Heat the oil in a large pan and cook the onions until translucent.
  Add the roughly chopped eggplants and red bell peppers, pureed tomatoes, bay leaves, peppercorns and salt.
  Add about 300 ml/ 10 fl.oz/ 1 ½ cups water and the juices released by the peppers as well, the mixtures should not be too dry.
  Cook everything on a very low flame for about 1 ½ hours, stirring regularly.
  Adjust the taste with salt and honey. You might need a bit more honey, depends on how sweet the peppers and the tomatoes were.
  Puree the vegetables roughly (there should still be small bits in the zacusca, it should not turn to a paste) with a hand-held mixer.
  Pour everything in the jars, close with the lids and can
  ## How do I can zacusca?
  Sterilize your jars while your vegetables are cooking. I normally place the jars and their lids in a big pan filled with water.
  Bring the water to a boil and cook the jars and the lids for about 5 minutes. Take the jars and lids out and let drain on a clean kitchen towel. Here you will find more information on sterilizing jars.
  For preserving the jars I use the same huge, quite flat pot that I use for sterilizing the jars.
  Place a folded kitchen towel on the bottom of the pot, put the jars on the towel taking care that they don’t touch each other, then pour enough hot water to cover the bottom half of the jars.
  Let everything come to a boil again, then boil the jars for 20 to 25 minutes.
  Take the jars out of the water immediately and let cool at room temperature.
  Keep the jars on shelves in the cellar or a colder room.
